RHIDP-2614: installing with Helm CLI (#287)
redhat-developer/red-hat-developers-documentation-rhdh: modules/installation/proc-installing-with-helm-cli.adoc

[id="installing-with-helm-cli_{context}"]
= Installing {product} with Helm CLI

> You can use the Helm CLI to install {product} on OpenShift or Kubernetes.

Reviewer: We should not include K8s procedures in the OCP assembly

.Prerequisites
* An `oc` or `kubectl` session with a user that has the `developer` or `admin` role on an OpenShift or Kubernetes cluster.
* Helm CLI.

.Procedure
. For a Kubernetes cluster, you  must first add the OpenShift Helm Charts repository. On Openshift, this is already present. 
+
----
$ helm repo add openshift-helm-charts https://charts.openshift.io/
----

> . Create and activate the _<rhdh>_ OpenShift project or Kubernetes namespace:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Create an {ocp-short} or Kubernetes project:
```
Kubernetes == OpenShift - there's no reason why you'd create a project in one or a namespace in the other AFAIK, so I'd stick with creating a project here.

Author: Split in 2 procedures for clarity. The OpenShift procedure mentions project. The Kubernetes procedure mentions namespace.

+

> [subs="quotes+"]
> ----

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[source,terminal]
[subs="quotes+"]
----
```

Add the tags for proper syntax highlighting to code blocks generally - not positive how this works using the "subs" or why we need those?

Reviewer 2: AFAIK, we use these throughout RHDH docs from what I've seen, so it's consistent with the rest of our docs

$ NAMESPACE=_<rhdh>_

> $ oc new-project ${NAMESPACE} || oc project ${NAMESPACE}

Reviewer 3: do we need these `$` in the commands? I can't recall if they exist in the rest of the docs, but https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_developer_hub/1.1/html-single/administration_guide_for_red_hat_developer_hub/index#proc-install-rhdh-airgapped-environment-ocp-helm_admin-rhdh has no `$` prefixes so it's easier to copy and paste

> $ NAMESPACE=_<rhdh>_
> $ oc new-project ${NAMESPACE} || oc project ${NAMESPACE}

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
oc new-project <project_name> || oc project <project_name>
```

I'd simplify this as above

> ----

Reviewer 2: @nickboldt is there a reason why we would document this for generic k8s instead of just supported OpenShift, since this is a RH downstream doc set, not upstream?

> ----

Reviewer 3: yes, because we state support for various k8s flavours in the 1.1 and 1.2 docs (AKS, EKS). 

https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_developer_hub/1.1/html-single/release_notes_for_red_hat_developer_hub_1.1/index#supported-platforms
(simple table)

https://dxp-docp-prod.apps.ext-waf.spoke.prod.us-west-2.aws.paas.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_developer_hub/1.2/html-single/release_notes_for_red_hat_developer_hub_1.2/index?lb_target=preview&check_logged_in=1#support-for-elastic-kubernetes-services-eks
https://dxp-docp-prod.apps.ext-waf.spoke.prod.us-west-2.aws.paas.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_developer_hub/1.2/html-single/release_notes_for_red_hat_developer_hub_1.2/index?lb_target=preview&check_logged_in=1#support-for-elastic-kubernetes-services-eks
(multiple verbose paragraphs)

https://dxp-docp-prod.apps.ext-waf.spoke.prod.us-west-2.aws.paas.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_developer_hub/1.2/html-single/administration_guide_for_red_hat_developer_hub/index?lb_target=preview&check_logged_in=1#assembly-rhdh-integration-aws_admin-rhdh
https://dxp-docp-prod.apps.ext-waf.spoke.prod.us-west-2.aws.paas.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_developer_hub/1.2/html-single/administration_guide_for_red_hat_developer_hub/index?lb_target=preview&check_logged_in=1#assembly-rhdh-integration-aks_admin-rhdh

> . Install the {product-short} Helm Chart:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Install the {product-short} Helm chart:
```
No need for the capital c on Helm chart throughout

+

> [subs="attributes+"]

Reviewer 2: same comment re syntax highlighting

----

> $ helm upgrade redhat-developer-hub -i https://github.com/openshift-helm-charts/charts/releases/download/redhat-redhat-developer-hub-{product-chart-version}/redhat-developer-hub-{product-chart-version}.tgz

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
helm upgrade redhat-developer-hub -i https://github.com/openshift-helm-charts/charts/releases/download/redhat-redhat-developer-hub-{product-chart-version}/redhat-developer-hub-{product-chart-version}.tgz
```

Remove `$` in all commands

----

> . Collect values from your OpenShift or Kubernetes cluster:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Collect values from your {ocp-short} or Kubernetes cluster:
```
Use attributes for all OCP instances, please

+
----
$ PASSWORD=$(oc get secret redhat-developer-hub-postgresql -o jsonpath="{.data.password}" | base64 -d)
$ CLUSTER_ROUTER_BASE=$(oc get route console -n openshift-console -o=jsonpath='{.spec.host}' | sed 's/^[^.]*\.//')
----

> . Configure your {product-short} Helm Chart instance with the collected values:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Configure your {product-short} Helm chart instance with the collected values:
```

+
[subs="attributes+"]
----
$ helm upgrade redhat-developer-hub -i "https://github.com/openshift-helm-charts/charts/releases/download/redhat-redhat-developer-hub-{product-chart-version}/redhat-developer-hub-{product-chart-version}.tgz" \
    --set global.clusterRouterBase="${CLUSTER_ROUTER_BASE}" \
    --set global.postgresql.auth.password="$PASSWORD"
----

. Display the running {product-short} instance URL:

> +
> ----
> $ echo https://redhat-developer-hub-${NAMESPACE}.${CLUSTER_ROUTER_BASE}
> ----

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
+
[source,terminal]
----
echo https://redhat-developer-hub-<namespace>.<cluster_route_base>
----
```

Format all variables inline with how they're formatted throughout docs and according to https://redhat-documentation.github.io/supplementary-style-guide/#user-replaced-values

.Verification

> * Open the running {product-short} instance URL in your browser to start using {product-short}.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Open the running {product-short} instance URL in your browser to use {product-short}.
```

[id="installing-with-helm-cli_{context}"]
= Installing {product} with Helm CLI

> As an OpenShift or Kubernetes administrator, you can use the Helm CLI to install {product}.

Author: ```suggestion
You can use the Helm CLI to install {product} on OpenShift or Kubernetes.
```
I had misread: 

> A user with the OpenShift Container Platform admin role has configured the appropriate roles and permissions within your project to create an application. For more information about OpenShift Container Platform roles, see Using RBAC to define and apply permissions.

.Prerequisites

> * An `oc` or `kubectl` session with a user that has `admin` role on an OpenShift or Kubernetes cluster.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* An `oc` or `kubectl` session with a user that has the `developer` or `admin` role on an OpenShift or Kubernetes cluster.
```

* Helm CLI.

.Procedure

> . Add the OpenShift Helm Charts repository:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
. For a Kubernetes cluster, you  must first add the OpenShift Helm Charts repository. On Openshift, this is already present. 
```

+
----
$ helm repo add openshift-helm-charts https://charts.openshift.io/
----

. Create and activate the _<rhdh>_ OpenShift project or Kubernetes namespace:
+
[subs="quotes+"]
----
$ NAMESPACE=_<rhdh>_

> $ oc new-project ${NAMESPACE}

Reviewer 3: This will create the new project OR select it, if it already exists. Saves a step. 

```suggestion
$ oc new-project ${NAMESPACE} || oc project ${NAMESPACE}
```

> $ oc project ${NAMESPACE}

Reviewer 3: if the project is new, then the first command will automatically select the project. 

Also this command is only for openshift; we probably want the kubectl command here as well.

> $ oc project ${NAMESPACE}

Author: ```suggestion
```

----

. Install the {product-short} Helm Chart:
+
[subs="attributes+"]
----

> $ helm upgrade redhat-developer-hub -i https://github.com/openshift-helm-charts/charts/releases/download/redhat-redhat-developer-hub-{product-chart-version}/redhat-developer-hub-{product-chart-version}.tgz

Reviewer 3: note that this version was wrong in 1.2 and main branches. See https://github.com/redhat-developer/red-hat-developers-documentation-rhdh/pull/288 and https://github.com/redhat-developer/red-hat-developers-documentation-rhdh/pull/289

----

> . Collect values from your OpenShift or Kubernetes cluster:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
. Collect the values of your postgres pod's password and the cluster's router base URL from your OpenShift or Kubernetes cluster:
```

+
----
$ PASSWORD=$(oc get secret redhat-developer-hub-postgresql -o jsonpath="{.data.password}" | base64 -d)
$ CLUSTER_ROUTER_BASE=$(oc get route console -n openshift-console -o=jsonpath='{.spec.host}' | sed 's/^[^.]*\.//')

> ----

Reviewer 3: probably want the kubectl commands here too?

Reviewer 3: ```
PASSWORD=$(kubectl get secret redhat-developer-hub-postgresql -o jsonpath="{.data.password}" | base64 -d)
CLUSTER_ROUTER_BASE=$(kubectl get route console -n openshift-console -o=jsonpath='{.spec.host}' | sed 's/^[^.]*\.//')
```

again, remove the `$` to make copy and paste easier.
